The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is a science fiction comedy series created
by Douglas Adams. Originally a radio comedy broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in 1978,
it was later adapted to other formats, and over several years it gradually
became an international multi-media phenomenon. Adaptations have included stage
shows, a series of five books first published between 1979 and 1992 (the first
of which was titled The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy), a 1981 TV series, a
1984 computer game, and three series of three-part comic book adaptations of
the first three novels published by DC Comics between 1993 and 1996. There were
also two series of novels, produced by Beer-Davies, that are considered by some
fans to be an "official version" of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, as
they include text from the first novel.[1][2] A Hollywood-funded film version,
produced and filmed in the UK, was released in April 2005, and adaptations of
the last three books to radio were broadcast from 2004 to 2005. Many of these
adaptations, including the novels, the TV series, the computer game, and the
earliest drafts of the Hollywood film's screenplay, were all done by Adams
himself, and some of the stage shows introduced new material written by Adams.

The title The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy[3] is often abbreviated "HHGTTG"
(as used on fan websites) or "H2G2" (first used by Neil Gaiman as a chapter
title in Don't Panic and later by the online guide run by the BBC). The series
is also often referred to as "The Hitchhiker's Guide", "Hitchhiker's", or
simply "[The] Guide." This title can refer to any of the various incarnations
of the story of which the books are the most widely distributed, having been
translated into more than 30 languages by 2005.[4] The title can also refer to
the fictional guidebook The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, an eccentric
electronic encyclopedia that features in the series.

Although the various versions follow the same basic plot, they are in many
places mutually contradictory, as Adams rewrote the story substantially for
each new adaptation. In all versions, the series follows the adventures of
Arthur Dent, a hapless Englishman who, with his friend Ford Prefect, an alien
from a small planet somewhere in the vicinity of Betelgeuse and researcher for
the eponymous guidebook, escapes the demolition of Earth by a bureaucratic
alien race called the Vogons. Zaphod Beeblebrox, Ford's semi-cousin and the
Galactic President, unknowingly saves the pair from certain death. He brings
them aboard his stolen spaceship, the Heart of Gold, whose crew rounds out the
main cast of characters: Marvin, the Paranoid Android, a depressed robot, and
Trillian, formerly known as Tricia McMillan, a woman Arthur once met at a party
who he soon realises is the only other survivor of Earth's destruction. After
this, the characters embark on a quest to find the legendary planet of
Magrathea and the Question to the Ultimate Answer.


